# 2021SpringGroup1 Cmpe 352 Term Assignment
This branch is outdated version of our original app. It only contains 3 django apps inside: person, login and post. I worked on this branch and send it over to my teammates and they developed it even further. But my work is not limited just here. I also work on our main branch which i will talk about in my personal report and milestone report. Anyways, you can find out how to use features of this project here. For the final version of our app, go check [MainApp](https://github.com/bounswe/2021SpringGroup1/tree/MainApp) branch.
<br>
In order to start this application, traverse to the root directory from the command line. To make sure, type dir (or ls if you are on Linux) and if you see manage.py, post, person and login files; then you are in the right place. In the root, type this command:
> python3 manage.py runserver 

If you see this line, that means server started successfully: 
> Starting development server at http://127.0.0.1:8000/

You can go to that address from your browser.
<hr>
Now, let's talk about django apps inside our project.

## Person
Person part of this Django app is basically creates a Person model and Person attributes. You can create new Person by giving attributes manually, or you can create a random person with a third party api. I am not going into details because i didn't implement this part of the app. You can check [MainApp](https://github.com/bounswe/2021SpringGroup1/tree/MainApp) for further information.

<hr>

## Login
### Creating account:
Login part of the app is quite simple. It allows users to log in to their accounts and let them interact with posts (We will come to this later). Of course, in order to log in to the system, you need to have an account. You can create your account adding something like this to base url:
> person/createPerson?title=(Title)&firstname=(FirstName)&lastname=(LastName)&location=(Location)&email=somemail@mail.com&age=30&phone=05553332211&imageUrl=image.url

Here, you can fill the parts with parenthesis however you like but you need to be careful about age field. Because it will only accept integer inputs. After typing this, you will see a json response which shows you created person.

### Logging in:
When you go to the url you get after starting the program, you will need to provide firstname and lastname to log in. Since i didn't create person, i didn't want to change it and add a password field so it is what it is. You can create an account or use someone from the database. Manuel Flores is one of them. If there is no person in the database with your inputs, then you will be sent to errorpage and it will warn you. You can go back and reenter. After you log in, you can always logout with logout button in the main page.
<br>
And that is all about login part. Next stop is the Post.
<hr>

## Post
Before we talk about Post features, we need to know about Post model.
### Post Model Fields:
- <b>id:</b> Every post has a unique id which is generated by the program.
- <b>posterid:</b> Every post has a posterid. This id shows which user posted this post.
- <b>title:</b> Every post has a title which is set by poster.
- <b>description:</b> Every post has a description set by poster.
- <b>likeNum:</b> Every post has a like number. Initially, it is 0.
- <b>likedBy:</b> Every post has a field to keep track of likers of that post.
- <b>createdDate:</b> Every post has a creation date which is handled by the program. 

### Creating Post:
You can create posts with 2 different ways.
- <b>Creating random posts:</b> If you just want to generate some random posts automatically, you need to change your url manually (ironic). But things will change if you are logged in or not.
  + <b>If you are logged in:</b> Then all you had to do is go to this url:
    > http://127.0.0.1:8000/post/createDummyPost
    
    You will get a confirmation message that says: Your post with title: "your title" and description: "description" created successfully!
    And thats it. now you have that post in the database. Other fields of post object handled by the program.
  + <b>If you are not logged in:</b> Then you need to provide a user id like this:
    > http://127.0.0.1:8000/post/createDummyPost?id=3
    
    If you are not logged in and if you do not provide id, then you will get this error message: You need to be logged in to the system or provide a user id!
    
- <b>Creating manually:</b> You can give your posts title and description as you like. But again, the process will change whether you are logged in or not.
  + <b>If you are logged in:</b> TAfter you log in, you will see the button "create post" in main page. Click that and it will take you to another page and in that page you can give your post a title and a description.
  + <b>If you are not logged in:</b> Then you need to provide a user id like this:
    > 127.0.0.1:8000/post/savePost?title=sda&description=desc&id=1
    
    If your post created successfully you will be send to the login page. Otherwise you will get an error message says: You need to be logged in to the system or provide a user id!

### View Post:
- <b>View posts in html page:</b> If you want to see posts in an html file, then you need to log in to the system. Once you logged in, you can see "view post" button in main page and by clicking it you can see every post and like them. If you like a post, then that posts likeNum and likedBy fields will be affected. You can check it by calling view post from the url.
- <b>View posts in json format:</b> You don't need to logged in to get json return. If you go to this url:
  > http://127.0.0.1:8000/post/viewPost/?type

  You can see every post and their fields. Or you can specify a post by its id like this:
  > http://127.0.0.1:8000/post/viewPost/?type&id=2

  Then you will only get that posts json value.
  
  
And thats it. You know everything about this project. I know there are some minor bugs and there is no styling whatsoever but this branch doesn't meant to be deployed. This branch was my playground to learn basics of django. 
  

